# Stata Monitor
Run .do file in batch mode and receive email stating if .do failed.

# Installation and Use Instructions

## A. Downloading Python

1. Download Python from the Python [website](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and download the most recent version.
2. Run the .exe that downloads to your machine
     * In the "Install Python" screen if you would like to accept the default install simply click "Install NOW".
     * If you do not want to accept default install (for example if you don't have write access to the C drive) click "Customize installation".
     * In the "Advanced Options" screen under "Customize install location" enter the location you prefer to install python followed by the default name of the python folder.
     * Finally click "Install".

## B. Cloning the Stata Monitor Repository

1. Create a folder in a desired directory to store the monitor.
2. Download the package by clicking *Download Zip* on the right hand side of the screen on the [Stata Monitor github page](https://github.com/sojourner-c/Stata_Monitor). 
3. Move the .zip file to the desired directory and unzip the file. Alternatively, with [Git](https://github.com/) installed, cd into the desired directory and run:
`git clone https://github.com/sojourner-c/Stata_Monitor.git`.

## C. Install Python Dependencies

1. Open a command prompt.
2. Type `pip install pypiwin32` and hit enter.

# Using Stata Monitor

1. Open a command prompt.
2. cd to base level of the Stata Monitor.
3. Type `python` and hit enter.
4. Type `from lib import stata_monitor` and hit enter.
5. Create a python variable with the full path and file name of the .do file you wish to run. For example, a .do file named "test.do" the directory "C:\stata\do" type `file = r"C:\stata\do\test.do"` and hit enter.
6. Type `stata_monitor.stata_monitor(file)` and hit enter. Replace file with whatever you named your python variable or with a raw string off the full path and file name.
7. If you do not wish to keep the Stata log file automatically generated by the monitor or have it attached to the notification email set the optional delete_log keyword argument equal to true. In our example: `stata_monitor.stata_monitor(file, delete_log=True)`. This keyword argument must be placed after any optional arguments included for the running of the .do file in batch mode.

Note: The .do file can not create a .log file with the same name as the .do file in the directory of the .do file.

# Testing Python Updates
Changes to the Python scripts or Modules can be tested by running the unittests located in the "tests" folder.

1. Open a command prompt.
2. cd to base level of the Stata Monitor.
3. Enter `python -m unittest discover -s test` and hit enter.
4. If necessary edit the changes made until the tests run without failures.
